- [Instructor] Let's walk through some examples
that demonstrate the benefit
of using generics with collections.
Collections can work with any type of object.
So the same type of collection that we use to store strings
can also be used to store custom objects like our room.
It's not like we need a separate type
of collection for the string
and another for the room.
Like we see in the example,
we can use an array list to hold both types.
Now collections are only meant to work with objects.
So if we insert a primitive like this long,
it needs to be autoboxed to its wrapper type
to work with the collection.
We can see this in action if we stream our collection
and then print out the type of its elements.
Here I'm just going to get the class of each element
in our collection within the stream
and print them out.
Let's see what happens.
You'll notice that our primitive long
was autoboxed to its wrapper type java.lang.long.
Now it's not a good practice,
but right now we can add
any type of element into our collection.
So if I copy this room,
I can come up here
and add it into the collection.
Now our collection is going to hold
a string, a long, and a room.
Let's say I wanted to work with the room in our stream.
That would mean I need to cast the element
to a type of room
and that would allow me to access
the methods on the room type.
So here I can do something like get the name of our room.
Now obviously this is going to cause a problem
and you'll notice my IDE
and the compiler had been trying to warn us
about this the whole time.
That's because all they know
is that this collection store's an object.
So when they see us inserting elements into it,
they're concerned that we're potentially adding
different types of objects.
So there's going to be an issue when we execute this code,
but let's run it anyway.
You'll notice that when executing the code,
we get a ClassCastException at runtime
and that's because we attempted to cast
one of these objects,
maybe it was the string or the long, to a type room
and it's just not compatible.
Prior to Java 5.0 when generics were introduced,
this is how we worked with collections.
We had to cast every element
that we retrieved from the collection to its type
and you just kind of hoped there wasn't a different type
in there that was going to throw an exception.
Now right now our collection is known as a raw type
and that's because we haven't provided
any type information about the elements it holds.
We can do that by using a generic type argument.
So here I'll add Room
as the generic type argument for our collection
and then I'll add the diamond operator on the constructor.
Now look what happens immediately.
The compiler shifts from giving us warnings
to giving us compile time errors
and that's because it now has
type information about our collection.
It knows that it holds rooms.
So when it sees us inserting a type like our string
into a collection that holds rooms,
it's going to give us a compile time error.
So we fail fast and we fail early
instead of experiencing this issue at runtime.
Now let's go ahead and we can comment out this code
because we know it's not going to work
and then I'm going to point out one final benefit
of using a generic.
Because we provided that type information
about our collection's elements,
the compiler can infer the type of those elements
when we retrieve them.
So instead of performing this cast,
we can just use the element
and invoke methods on the generic type of our collection.
All right, so with all that in place,
let's go ahead and we can execute this code
and you'll notice that it prints out the name
of our room to the console.
When working with collections,
you always want to use the generic type
and avoid using raw types.
This will shift any issues to compile time
and it will become much easier to discover
and resolve those problems in your code.